DAY4 FRIDAY 26-12-2025

HTML:
Origin of HTML
How HTML works with in the browser (compiler, execution machine and encription-decription)
HTML5 tags
Meta tags
SEO
What is doctype, head and body section
Important HTML tags
Types of tags

HTML Tags:
p, h, img, a, text (input, button, ....), label, div, html, head, body, table, title, meta, style, link, tr, th, td, ul, ol, li, 

Programs:
1. Create HTML (No CSS) for given design.
2. Create the HTML for the given design using draw.io
3. Create the HTML for the given design using AI tool
4. Change CSS properties (Border color, border type, border radius, padding, margin, glow the border on mouse-hover-in)
5. Set default content of the text box, set maximum characters for the text box.

Start with JS:
6. Change the Password as Phone number. Set the text box content to be only numeric, exactly 10 digits, no negative number, do this using RE
7. Check if PersonName text box is empty, is having only alphabets, maximum 16 characters/letters, onBlur glow the border, onFocus glow the border
8.ACTIVITY:
Mention all (as many) properties of a text box.
Mention all (as many) properties of a button.
Types of button (button, reset, submit)
9. Mention as many properties of Meta tag
--------------------------------------------------------------
1. Add a header and paragraph. The header is the title of the topic and paragraph is the description.
The header must be center aligned and underlined and Blue in color. The paragraph must be in black.
2. Use Anchor tag and add your Fav domain name and check if on click of the href, the website is opening or not.
3. For the 1st program, put each of the 2 elements in div tag. And give different margins for each of them.
4. Create a simple page with Index and on click of the titles, the cursor should reach the specific content in the webpage.
5. Create 2 webpages with names bengaluru.html and kolkata.html
In the bengaluru.html Add bengaluru image and also a href (anchor) with text "GO TO KOLKATA" and similar thing in the other file. On click of the image or the href, we should be able to move to the other file.
6. Create an unordered list of 7 sister states.
7. Create an ordered list of pet animals in order of their weights.
8. Create a table of dairy items and their prices.
9. Create a table of dairy items and their prices. with borders (at least 3 different ways)
10. Create a simple feedaback form and allow user to give eloborated text (text area) of minimum 50 and maximum 1000 characters. If the conditions are met, then give a alert message Feddback submitted.
--------------------------------------------------------------
DAY5 SATURDAY 27-12-2025

JAVA SCRIPT NOTES AND PROGRAMS

JS is a Scripting language similar to Python or Shell scripting or Pearl.

In Scripting languages, there is no compile time/phase.
The code directly goes to execution phase where each of the instruction from the script is taken and 
Compiled -> Intepreted -> Run

The JS as we can guess, borrows the syntax from Java.
Thus the Java naming stacndards must be followed.
Every Browser has built in JS compiler, interpretor, execution machine and libraries built in it.

The standardisation for JS is brought by ECMA (European Computer Manufacturers Association)
Thus we have ES6 ES7 etc versions of JS.

JS is not strongly type checked language like Java.
The Microsoft has built a wrapper (upper layer) to JS and has come with its own flavour named Type Script. And Type Script code are/is type checked. And the TS scripts have .ts extension. AngularJS uses TS.

JS is mainly used for client Side validations. However, it also gives functionality to the front end code/programming and makes it very easy for the users to use the UI (client side).

JS has evoolved into a big language. JS earlier had no OOP. But today it has all the features of OOP as well.

The Front end frameworks like React, Angular and Vue uses JS as the core language. The most simplest way of representing an object is using JSON (JS object notation) or JS object literal, which uses the Key-Value pair (similar to Python dict)

JS is very easy to learn (Learn on the Go). However, what is important will be the ES6 and above features.

For more information on JS, refer dev.mozilla.org

Even in the databases like MongoDb, the JSON noation or similar notation are used (key-value pairs).

Not just the frontend frameworks, but also the backend frameworks like ExpressJs, and the backend-database bridge like Sequelize or even the mongoose follow much of the JS syntax.

Thus for the MERN Stack and MEAN Stack kind of Web App Development technologies, JS remains the major language, the syntax and many a libraries as well (promise, mustache etc.)

Thus learning JS is very important for any software professional!

If n = null
Here null is the value to mention that the reference variable 'n' is not pointing to any object. Thus 'n' here is of object type.
typeof() gives the data type of the variable/value.

n = {id : 1244, name : 'nithin', salary : 55999}

Here n is the reference which points to the employee object.
Now if we make n = null, it means n is now not pointing to any object. And the object that was earlier pointed by 'n' will be garbage collected.  (memory deallocation)

DATA TYPES IN JS:
1. number (both integer and float)
2. object (A variable/reference whose value is null doesn't refer/point to any object)
3. boolean (true or false)
4.

Say suppose,
n = 15		n is number
m = '15'	m is string

When we check n == m
Here, only the values are checked, ignoring their data types.
Hence n == m return true.

However, if want JS to check not just the values but also their data types, then we must use ===

n === m now returns false

Note: string is the DT in JS and String is the DT in Java
We can use subscript in JS for string objects where as in Java, it is syntax Error.

m = 'mandya'
m[0] returns 'm' (which is also considered to be string)
m[1] returns 'a'
m[6] returns undefined in JS
Where as m.charAt(6) in Java returns StringIndexOutOfBoundsException

In java, m.charAt(3) returns 'd' which is of type char and not String.

In the exam_results program we understood that, it is not just important to solve a problem (find a solution), but to find the best solution (optimised solution). It is important to think about the solution behaving (efficiency) on different type of i/p.

For example, say if the number of students in the college are 5000 and the college ranks on top list of the country, and if we apply the solution as it is, then we end up checking 5000 * 4 = 20000 conditions.
However if we take the previous years results of the college (data analytics) and then change the logic accordingly (check if outstanding and the first class and then 2nd class and so on..), then the number of conditions checked will be only 5000 * 1 = 5000. Thus we decreased the time taken by 75%.
--------------------------------------------------
DAY7 TUESDAY 30-12-2025

Student student = new Student();